1. What are the different types of JOINS in SQL and give examples of each.
Inner Join, Right Join, Left Join, Full (Outer) Join

2. What is a check constraint?
A check constraint is a type of integrity constraint in SQL which specifies a requirement that must be met by each row in a database table. 

3. What is the difference between clustered and non clustered index in SQL?
Clustered index is used for easy retrieval of data from the database and its faster whereas reading from non clustered index is relatively slower.
Clustered index alters the way records are stored in a database as it sorts out rows by the column which is set to be clustered index whereas in a non clustered index, it does not alter the way it was stored but it creates a separate object within a table which points back to the original table rows after searching.
One table can only have one clustered index whereas it can have many non clustered index.

4. Difference between primary key and unique constraint?
Primary Key constraints are not nullable. Other tables can use this field to create foreign key relationships to themselves.
UNIQUE constraints may be nullable.

5. What is a correlated subquery?
A correlated subquery is a subquery (a query nested inside another query) that uses values from the outer query.

6. What is the difference between ‘HAVING’ CLAUSE and a ‘WHERE’ CLAUSE?
WHERE clause is used for filtering rows and it applies on each and every row, while HAVING clause is used to filter groups in SQL. 

7. Define the 3 types of user-defined functions
Scalar Functions
Inline Table-valued functions
Multi-statement valued functions

8. What does Collation mean?
Collation is defined as a set of rules that determine how data can be sorted as well as compared.

9. Suppose you have a table of Employees with a Salary column for each employee record and each Salary is different. How would you find the 2nd highest Salary?
Select MAX(Salary) from Employees WHERE Salary NOT IN ( select MAX(Salary) from Employees.

10. What is the difference between Union and Union All command?
Union: It omits duplicate records and returns only distinct result set of two or more select statements.
Union All: It returns all the rows including duplicates in the result set of different select statements.

11. What is Identity in SQL Server and how would you get the last identity value inserted in a table?
An identity column is a column in a database table that is made up of values generated by the database
SCOPE_IDENTITY() , IDENT_CURRENT, @@IDENTITY, OUTPUT INSERTED.ID

12. Name 2 of the 6 different ways to import data directly into SQL Server using T-SQL commands.
BCP, Bulk Insert, OpenRowSet, OpenDataSource, OpenQuery, Linked Servers

13. Assuming that there are 30 records in a table called "Mountain" with a column called "Height", how would you find the 10th tallest mountain.
SELECT TOP (1) Height FROM
(
  SELECT TOP (10) Height FROM Mountain ORDER BY Height DESC
) AS Mt ORDER BY Height


FREEFORM
Tell me what is your proudest project and what role did you play in that?


